test_plans/oneapi/ext_oneapi_current_device.asciidoc, before:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for ext oneapi current device

This is a test plan for the device selector as described in SYCL 2020 revision 9 specification.

Estimated development time is one day.

== Testing scope

=== Backend coverage

All the tests described below are not backend-specific and are performed for any SYCL backend.

=== Device coverage

All tests construct a test device for which conformance is assessed. All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
can be selected on the CTS command line.

== Tests

=== Feature test macro

All of the tests should use `#ifdef SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_CURRENT_DEVICE` so they can be skipped
if feature is not supported.

=== Functions `get_current_device` and `set_current_device`

1. Get default device name from environment variable. Call `get_current_device()` but do not call `set_current_device`.
Compare value stored in env variable and returned by `get_current_device()` device names.
2. Call `set_current_device(d)` then call `get_current_device()` from the same thread.
Compare return value of `get_current_device()` with `d`.
3. Create multiple threads. Each thread calls the following in a loop: `set_current_device(d)` followed by `get_current_device()`. Each thread uses a different device `d` (if the system has more than one device). 
Make sure the call to get_device returns the same device that was set in `set_current_device(d)`. This tests that each thread is keeping a separate copy of the "current device".

Commit message:

[SYCL] update test to check default device in different threads

test_plans/oneapi/ext_oneapi_current_device.asciidoc, after:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for ext oneapi current device

This is a test plan for the device selector as described in SYCL 2020 revision 9 specification.

Estimated development time is one day.

== Testing scope

=== Backend coverage

All the tests described below are not backend-specific and are performed for any SYCL backend.

=== Device coverage

All tests construct a test device for which conformance is assessed. All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
can be selected on the CTS command line.

== Tests

=== Feature test macro

All of the tests should use `#ifdef SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_CURRENT_DEVICE` so they can be skipped
if feature is not supported.

=== Functions `get_current_device` and `set_current_device`

1. Get default device. Call `get_current_device()` but do not call `set_current_device`.
Compare value stored in env variable and returned by `get_current_device()` device names.
2. Call `set_current_device(d)` then call `get_current_device()` from the same thread.
Compare return value of `get_current_device()` with `d`.
3. Create two threads. Thread 1 calls `set_current_device(d1)` and sends signal to thread 2, waits signals from thread 2, calls `get_current_device()` and checks that got d1.
Thread 2 calls `set_current_device(d2)` and sends signal to thread 1, waits signals from thread 1, calls `get_current_device()` and checks that got d2.
Test checks that every thread has its own default device. Requires 2 devices at available.
