test_plans/kernel_bundle.asciidoc, before:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for kernel_bundle (cover gaps)

This is a test plan cover kernel_bundle functionality that is not covered by current tests.

== Testing scope

Tests intend to cover functions from 4.11. Kernel bundles that are not covered in https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL-CTS/tree/SYCL-2020/tests/kernel_bundle

=== Device coverage

All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
is selected on the CTS command line if not stated otherwise.

== Tests

=== Finctions `is_compatible`

==== Tests for `is_compatible(const std::vector<kernel_id> &kernelIds, const device &dev)`

Check that result of function `is_compatible(const std::vector<kernel_id> &kernelIds, const device &dev)`:

* `false` for zero kernels
* `true` for built-in kernel id for the same device
* `false` for built-in kernel id for the other device
* for kernel with no kernel attributes:

** `true` for kernel with no optional features and any device
** `true` for fp16/fp64/atomic64 kernel and device with appropriate aspect
** `false` for fp16/fp64/atomic64 kernel and device without appropriate aspect

* for kernel with `reqd_work_group_size`

** `false` for kernel with no optional features and any device with `max_work_group_size` less than `reqd_work_group_size`

* for kernel with `reqd_sub_group_size` (that is less than `max_work_group_size`)

** `false` for kernel with no optional features and any device with `sub_group_sizes` not containing `reqd_sub_group_size`

* for kernel with no optional features used and with sycl::requires() kernel attribute

** `true` for `has(fp16)`/`has(fp64)`/`has(atomic64)` and device with appropriate aspect
** false for `has(fp16)`/`has(fp64)`/`has(atomic64)` and device without appropriate aspect

* for multiple kernels result is equal to AND operation applied to the multiple calls - each one using single kernel id
** Check with vector with kernel ids for same and other devices

==== Tests for `template<typename KernelName> bool is_compatible(const device &dev)`

Same tests as previous section except no zero, built-in and multiple kernels cases.

=== `sycl::kernel_bundle` API

==== Deleted default constructor

Check that `std::is_default_constructible_v<sycl::kernel_bundle>` is `false`.

==== Tests for `get_devices()`

* Use some of available devices to create fill std::vector<device>.
* Create kernel_bundle via `get_kernel_bundle(const context&, const std::vector<device>&)`.
* Check that return type is std::vector<device>.
* Check that return vector contains all devices from input vector and only them.

==== `has_kernel(const kernel_id &kernelId, const device &dev)`

Check that result of function is:

* `true` if kernelId is within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `true`
* `false` if kernelId is within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `false`
* `false` if kernelId is not within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `true`
* `false` if kernelId is not within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `false`


==== `std::vector<kernel_id> get_kernel_ids()`

Define 4 kernels.
Get kernel_bundle with built-in kernels.
Check that result of get_kernel_ids:

* has type `std::vector<kernel_id>`
* has size 4
* has only different kernel ids

==== `get_kernel()`

Define kernel KernelName.
Get `kernel_bundle` with built-in kernels.

* Use `get_kernel<KernelName>()` to get kernel and that return type is `sycl::kernel`
* Try to use `get_kernel<OtherKernelName>()` and check that `errc::invalid` is thrown

=== Tests for working with specialization constants

Partially tested in https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL-CTS/blob/SYCL-2020/tests/specialization_constants/specialization_constants_via_kernel_bundle.h

There are should be two spec constants defined - `SpecName` and `OtherSpecName`.

==== Empty kernel bundle

* Get an empty `kernel_bundle`.
* Check that `contains_specialization_constants()` return `false`.
* Check that `native_specialization_constant()` return `false`.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return `false`.

==== Kernel bundle without `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant()` call

* Get an input `kernel_bundle` with kernel without `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant()` call.
* Check that `contains_specialization_constants()` return `false`.
* Check that `native_specialization_constant()` return `false`.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return `false`.
* Check that `get_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return default value.
* Call `compile()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `object` state.
* Check the same.
* Call `link()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `executable` state.
* Check the same.

==== Kernel bundle with `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant()` call

* Get an input `kernel_bundle` with kernel with `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` call.
* Set each spec constant to a different value via `kernel_bundle::set_specialization_constant()`.
* Check that `contains_specialization_constants()` return `true`.
* Check that called `native_specialization_constant()` without exception.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return `true`.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<OtherSpecName>()` return `false`.
* Check that `get_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return new value.
* Call `compile()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `object` state.
* Check the same.
* Call `link()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `executable` state.
* Check the same.

Commit message:

Add test case for get_backend

test_plans/kernel_bundle.asciidoc, after:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for kernel_bundle (cover gaps)

This is a test plan cover kernel_bundle functionality that is not covered by current tests.

== Testing scope

Tests intend to cover functions from 4.11. Kernel bundles that are not covered in https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL-CTS/tree/SYCL-2020/tests/kernel_bundle

=== Device coverage

All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
is selected on the CTS command line if not stated otherwise.

== Tests

=== Finctions `is_compatible`

==== Tests for `is_compatible(const std::vector<kernel_id> &kernelIds, const device &dev)`

Check that result of function `is_compatible(const std::vector<kernel_id> &kernelIds, const device &dev)`:

* `false` for zero kernels
* `true` for built-in kernel id for the same device
* `false` for built-in kernel id for the other device
* for kernel with no kernel attributes:

** `true` for kernel with no optional features and any device
** `true` for fp16/fp64/atomic64 kernel and device with appropriate aspect
** `false` for fp16/fp64/atomic64 kernel and device without appropriate aspect

* for kernel with `reqd_work_group_size`

** `false` for kernel with no optional features and any device with `max_work_group_size` less than `reqd_work_group_size`

* for kernel with `reqd_sub_group_size` (that is less than `max_work_group_size`)

** `false` for kernel with no optional features and any device with `sub_group_sizes` not containing `reqd_sub_group_size`

* for kernel with no optional features used and with sycl::requires() kernel attribute

** `true` for `has(fp16)`/`has(fp64)`/`has(atomic64)` and device with appropriate aspect
** false for `has(fp16)`/`has(fp64)`/`has(atomic64)` and device without appropriate aspect

* for multiple kernels result is equal to AND operation applied to the multiple calls - each one using single kernel id
** Check with vector with kernel ids for same and other devices

==== Tests for `template<typename KernelName> bool is_compatible(const device &dev)`

Same tests as previous section except no zero, built-in and multiple kernels cases.

=== `sycl::kernel_bundle` API

==== Deleted default constructor

Check that `std::is_default_constructible_v<sycl::kernel_bundle>` is `false`.

==== Test for `get_backend()`

Call function `kernel::get_backend()` and check that return type is `sycl::backend`.

==== Tests for `get_devices()`

* Use some of available devices to create fill std::vector<device>.
* Create kernel_bundle via `get_kernel_bundle(const context&, const std::vector<device>&)`.
* Check that return type is std::vector<device>.
* Check that return vector contains all devices from input vector and only them.

==== `has_kernel(const kernel_id &kernelId, const device &dev)`

Check that result of function is:

* `true` if kernelId is within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `true`
* `false` if kernelId is within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `false`
* `false` if kernelId is not within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `true`
* `false` if kernelId is not within get_kernel_ids() and `is_compatible({kernelId}, const device&)` is `false`


==== `std::vector<kernel_id> get_kernel_ids()`

Define 4 kernels.
Get kernel_bundle with built-in kernels.
Check that result of get_kernel_ids:

* has type `std::vector<kernel_id>`
* has size 4
* has only different kernel ids

==== `get_kernel()`

Define kernel KernelName.
Get `kernel_bundle` with built-in kernels.

* Use `get_kernel<KernelName>()` to get kernel and that return type is `sycl::kernel`
* Try to use `get_kernel<OtherKernelName>()` and check that `errc::invalid` is thrown

=== Tests for working with specialization constants

Partially tested in https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL-CTS/blob/SYCL-2020/tests/specialization_constants/specialization_constants_via_kernel_bundle.h

There are should be two spec constants defined - `SpecName` and `OtherSpecName`.

==== Empty kernel bundle

* Get an empty `kernel_bundle`.
* Check that `contains_specialization_constants()` return `false`.
* Check that `native_specialization_constant()` return `false`.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return `false`.

==== Kernel bundle without `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant()` call

* Get an input `kernel_bundle` with kernel without `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant()` call.
* Check that `contains_specialization_constants()` return `false`.
* Check that `native_specialization_constant()` return `false`.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return `false`.
* Check that `get_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return default value.
* Call `compile()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `object` state.
* Check the same.
* Call `link()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `executable` state.
* Check the same.

==== Kernel bundle with `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant()` call

* Get an input `kernel_bundle` with kernel with `kernel_handler::get_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` call.
* Set each spec constant to a different value via `kernel_bundle::set_specialization_constant()`.
* Check that `contains_specialization_constants()` return `true`.
* Check that called `native_specialization_constant()` without exception.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return `true`.
* Check that `has_specialization_constant<OtherSpecName>()` return `false`.
* Check that `get_specialization_constant<SpecName>()` return new value.
* Call `compile()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `object` state.
* Check the same.
* Call `link()` to build the `kernel_bundle` into `executable` state.
* Check the same.
