test_plans/non_uniform_groups.asciidoc, before:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for sycl_ext_oneapi_non_uniform_groups

This is a test plan for the APIs described in
https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_non_uniform_groups.asciidoc[sycl_ext_oneapi_non_uniform_groups].


== Testing scope

=== Device coverage

All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
is selected on the CTS command line.

=== Feature test macro

All of the tests should use `#ifdef SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_NON_UNIFORM_GROUPS` so they
can be skipped if feature is not supported.

== Tests

=== The `is_fixed_topology_group` trait for existing types

Check the following:

* `is_fixed_topology_group<group<1>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<group<1>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<group<2>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<group<2>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<group<3>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<group<3>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<sub_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<sub_group>` is `true`.

If `SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_ROOT_GROUP` is defined, check the following:

* `is_fixed_topology_group<root_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<root_group>` is `true`.

=== The `ballot_group` class API

The `get_ballot_group` is called with the `sub_group` of the invocation and a
predicate splitting the work-items of the sub-group into uneven groups. Let `N1`
be the size of the group created with `true` predicate and let `N2` be the size
of the group created with `false` predicate.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<ballot_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<ballot_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<ballot_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group_v<ballot_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<ballot_group<sub_group>>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<ballot_group<sub_group>>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is
`1` if the predicate was `true` or `0` if the predicate was `false`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is less
than `N1` if the predicate was `true` or less than `N2` if the predicate was
`false`.

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `2`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `N1` if the predicate was `true` or equal to `N2` if the predicate was
`false`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== The `fixed_size_group` class API

Let `N` be some power-of-two value greater than 1 that is expected to be a
divisor of the sub-group size of most devices. The `get_fixed_size_group` is
called with the `sub_group` of the invocation and `N` as the partition size.
Let `M` be the result of `get_local_range()` on the sub-group the given
`fixed_size_group` was created from.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id<1>` and return value is less than
`M/N`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id<1>` and return value is less than
`N`.

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `M/N`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `N`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to
`linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== The `tangle_group` class API

The `get_tangle_group` is called with the `sub_group` of the invocation. This
will only be called by the first `N` items of the sub-group, where `N` is
strictly less than the result of `get_local_range()` on the sub-group.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<tangle_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<tangle_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<tangle_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<tangle_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<tangle_group<sub_group>>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<tangle_group<sub_group>>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is equal
to `0`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is less
than `N`.

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `1`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `N`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== The `opportunistic_group` class API

The `get_opportunistic_group` is called by all work items.
Let `M` be the result of `get_local_range()` on the sub-group of the invocation.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<opportunistic_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<opportunistic_group>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<opportunistic_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<opportunistic_group>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<opportunistic_group>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<opportunistic_group>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is equal
to `0`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is less
than `get_local_range().size()`. 

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `1`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
less than or equal to `M`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== Group functions

The group functions

* `group_barrier`
* `group_broadcast`

for `ballot_group`, `fixed_size_group`, `tangle_group`
and `opportunistic_group` are tested similar to how they are currently tested
with `group` and `sub_group` in the core CTS. The groups are constructed in the
same way as for the API testing described above.

=== Group algorithms

The group algorithms

* `joint_any_of`
* `any_of_group`
* `joint_all_of`
* `all_of_group`
* `joint_none_of`
* `none_of_group`
* `shift_group_left`
* `shift_group_right`
* `permute_group_by_xor`
* `select_from_group`
* `joint_reduce`
* `reduce_over_group`
* `joint_exclusive_scan`
* `exclusive_scan_over_group`
* `joint_inclusive_scan`
* `inclusive_scan_over_group`

for `ballot_group`, `fixed_size_group`, `tangle_group`
and `opportunistic_group` are tested similar to how they are currently tested
with `group` and `sub_group` in the core CTS.

The groups are constructed as follows:

* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `true` for the first `N`
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `true` for work-items
  with odd `sg.get_local_linear_id()` values, where `sg` is the sub-group.
* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `true` for all
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `false` for all
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 1.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 2, if 2 is greater
  than or equal to the smallest supported sub-group size on the device.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 4, if 4 is greater
  than or equal to the smallest supported sub-group size on the device.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 8, if 8 is greater
  than or equal to the smallest supported sub-group size on the device.
* `get_tangle_group` is called in a branched control-flow with the first `N`
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_tangle_group` is called in a branched control-flow with work-items with
  odd `sg.get_local_linear_id()` values, where `sg` is the sub-group.
* `get_tangle_group` is called by all items in the sub-group.
* `get_opportunistic_group` is called in a branched control-flow with the first
  `N` work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_opportunistic_group` is called in a branched control-flow with work-items
  with odd `sg.get_local_linear_id()` values, where `sg` is the sub-group.
* `get_opportunistic_group` is called by all items in the sub-group.

Commit message:

Specify API checks for tangle_group runs in if-else
Signed-off-by: Larsen, Steffen <steffen.larsen@intel.com>

test_plans/non_uniform_groups.asciidoc, after:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for sycl_ext_oneapi_non_uniform_groups

This is a test plan for the APIs described in
https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_non_uniform_groups.asciidoc[sycl_ext_oneapi_non_uniform_groups].


== Testing scope

=== Device coverage

All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
is selected on the CTS command line.

=== Feature test macro

All of the tests should use `#ifdef SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_NON_UNIFORM_GROUPS` so they
can be skipped if feature is not supported.

== Tests

=== The `is_fixed_topology_group` trait for existing types

Check the following:

* `is_fixed_topology_group<group<1>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<group<1>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<group<2>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<group<2>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<group<3>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<group<3>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<sub_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<sub_group>` is `true`.

If `SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_ROOT_GROUP` is defined, check the following:

* `is_fixed_topology_group<root_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<root_group>` is `true`.

=== The `ballot_group` class API

The `get_ballot_group` is called with the `sub_group` of the invocation and a
predicate splitting the work-items of the sub-group into uneven groups. Let `N1`
be the size of the group created with `true` predicate and let `N2` be the size
of the group created with `false` predicate.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<ballot_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<ballot_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<ballot_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group_v<ballot_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group<ballot_group<sub_group>>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<ballot_group<sub_group>>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is
`1` if the predicate was `true` or `0` if the predicate was `false`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is less
than `N1` if the predicate was `true` or less than `N2` if the predicate was
`false`.

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `2`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `N1` if the predicate was `true` or equal to `N2` if the predicate was
`false`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== The `fixed_size_group` class API

Let `N` be some power-of-two value greater than 1 that is expected to be a
divisor of the sub-group size of most devices. The `get_fixed_size_group` is
called with the `sub_group` of the invocation and `N` as the partition size.
Let `M` be the result of `get_local_range()` on the sub-group the given
`fixed_size_group` was created from.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<fixed_size_group<N, sub_group>>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id<1>` and return value is less than
`M/N`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id<1>` and return value is less than
`N`.

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `M/N`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `N`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to
`linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== The `tangle_group` class API

The `get_tangle_group` is called with the `sub_group` of the invocation. 
Let `M` be the result of `get_local_range()` on this `sub_group` and let `N` be
some value strictly less than `M`. `get_tangle_group` is called it two split
control-flows in an if-else-statement, the if-branch with the first `N` items of
the sub-group and the else branch with the rest.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<tangle_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<tangle_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<tangle_group<sub_group>>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<tangle_group<sub_group>>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<tangle_group<sub_group>>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<tangle_group<sub_group>>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is equal
to `0`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is less
than `N`.

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `1`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `N`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== The `opportunistic_group` class API

The `get_opportunistic_group` is called by all work items.
Let `M` be the result of `get_local_range()` on the sub-group of the invocation.

==== Group traits

Check the following:

* `is_group<opportunistic_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_group_v<opportunistic_group>` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<opportunistic_group>::value` is `true`.
* `is_user_constructed_group<opportunistic_group>` is `true`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<opportunistic_group>::value` is `false`.
* `is_fixed_topology_group_v<opportunistic_group>` is `false`.

==== Members

Check the following:

* `id_type` is same as `id<1>`.
* `range_type` is same as `range<1>`.
* `linear_id_type` is same as `uint32_t`.
* `dimensions` is 1.
* `fence_scope` is equal to `sub_group::fence_scope`.

==== get_group_id

Check that `get_group_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is equal
to `0`.

==== get_local_id

Check that `get_local_id()` return type is `id_type` and return value is less
than `get_local_range().size()`. 

==== get_group_range

Check that `get_group_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
equal to `1`.

==== get_local_range

Check that `get_local_range()` return type is `range_type` and return value is
less than or equal to `M`.

==== get_group_linear_id

Check that `get_group_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_id

Check that `get_local_linear_id()` return type is `linear_id_type` and the
return value is equal to `get_local_id()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_group_linear_range

Check that `get_group_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_group_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== get_local_linear_range

Check that `get_local_linear_range()` return type is `linear_id_type` and return
value is equal to `get_local_range()` converted to `linear_id_type`.

==== leader

Check that `leader()` return type is `bool` and return value is equal to
`get_local_id() == 0`.

=== Group functions

The group functions

* `group_barrier`
* `group_broadcast`

for `ballot_group`, `fixed_size_group`, `tangle_group`
and `opportunistic_group` are tested similar to how they are currently tested
with `group` and `sub_group` in the core CTS. The groups are constructed in the
same way as for the API testing described above.

=== Group algorithms

The group algorithms

* `joint_any_of`
* `any_of_group`
* `joint_all_of`
* `all_of_group`
* `joint_none_of`
* `none_of_group`
* `shift_group_left`
* `shift_group_right`
* `permute_group_by_xor`
* `select_from_group`
* `joint_reduce`
* `reduce_over_group`
* `joint_exclusive_scan`
* `exclusive_scan_over_group`
* `joint_inclusive_scan`
* `inclusive_scan_over_group`

for `ballot_group`, `fixed_size_group`, `tangle_group`
and `opportunistic_group` are tested similar to how they are currently tested
with `group` and `sub_group` in the core CTS.

The groups are constructed as follows:

* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `true` for the first `N`
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `true` for work-items
  with odd `sg.get_local_linear_id()` values, where `sg` is the sub-group.
* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `true` for all
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_ballot_group` is called with a predicate that is `false` for all
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 1.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 2, if 2 is greater
  than or equal to the smallest supported sub-group size on the device.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 4, if 4 is greater
  than or equal to the smallest supported sub-group size on the device.
* `get_fixed_size_group` is called with a partition-size of 8, if 8 is greater
  than or equal to the smallest supported sub-group size on the device.
* `get_tangle_group` is called in a branched control-flow with the first `N`
  work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_tangle_group` is called in a branched control-flow with work-items with
  odd `sg.get_local_linear_id()` values, where `sg` is the sub-group.
* `get_tangle_group` is called by all items in the sub-group.
* `get_opportunistic_group` is called in a branched control-flow with the first
  `N` work-items in the sub-group.
* `get_opportunistic_group` is called in a branched control-flow with work-items
  with odd `sg.get_local_linear_id()` values, where `sg` is the sub-group.
* `get_opportunistic_group` is called by all items in the sub-group.
