test_plans/sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device.asciidoc, before:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device

This is a test plan for the API described in the
https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/e94b24718e60a7fa03ca1abbde4f7e37bbd0557d/sycl/doc/extensions/proposed/sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device.asciidoc[`sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device`]
extension specification.

== Testing scope

=== Device coverage

All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
is selected on the CTS command line.

=== Feature test macro

All of the tests should use `#ifdef SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_COMPOSITE_DEVICE` so they
can be skipped if the extension is not supported.

== Tests

Note that some of the sections below closely follow the extension specification
document and describe tests with narrower scope, which are aimed to check
specific functionality. There are sections below which describe bigger test
cases which are intended to check how different elements of the extension work
together.

=== Enumerating composite devices

==== Through the new `get_composite_devices()` API

This test should check that freestanding function `get_composite_devices()`:

- has the correct signature
- does not throw an exception
- returns the same result on subsequent calls

==== Through the new `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()` API

This test should take a platform the selected device belongs to and check that
`platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()` method:

- has the correct signature
- does not throw an exception
- returns the same result on subsequent calls

==== Composite devices are not considered as root devices

The test should ensure that no composite devices are returned through the
`platform::get_device()` method for a platform the selected device belongs to.

=== New device information descriptors

==== `info::device::component_devices`

The test should check that a query for the information descriptor has correct
return type.

The test should also check the value returned for the descriptor:

- if the selected device is a component device, an empty vector is expected
- otherwise, returned vector is expected to be non-empty and each its element
  should be additionally checked:
  - each component device should have the `ext_oneapi_is_component` aspect
  - each component device should return the selected device through
    `info::device::composite_device` query

==== `info::device::composite_device`

The test should check that a query for the information descriptor has correct
return type.

The test should also check the value returned for the descriptor:

- if the selected device is a component device, then a synchronous `exception`
  with `errc::invalid` error code is expected
- otherwise, returned device should have the `ext_oneapi_is_composite` aspect

=== New device aspects

==== `ext_oneapi_is_composite`

The test should check that if the selected device has the aspect, then the
device should be present in a list returned by both `get_composite_devices()`
and `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()`.

==== `ext_oneapi_is_component`

The test should check that if the selected device has the aspect, then the
device should *not* be present in a list returned by either
`get_composite_devices()` or `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()`.

The test should then attempt to partition a component device using one of
partition methods it supports and check that none of sub-devices have the
`ext_oneapi_is_component` aspect.

=== Impact on "descendent device"

The test should first obtain both a component and a composite device and it is
skipped if that is not possible using the selected device.

Having those two, the test should create a `context` using the _composite_
device and then attempt to create a `queue` by passing the created context in
there *and* the _component_ device. The test checks that `queue` was created
successfully, i.e. no exceptions were thrown.

=== More complex test cases

Tests in this category are intended to represent miniature versions of potential
real-world applications to check how the extension works with other core SYCL
features.

==== Basic tests for the composite device

The test obtains a composite device using the selected device and it is skipped
if unable to do so.

The composite device is then used to submit a series of kernels that perform
some computations and memory operations using a `queue` object associated with
that device.

==== "Interoperability" between composite and component devices

The test should first obtain both a component and a composite device and it is
skipped if that is not possible using the selected device.

The test than creates a shared context for both devices, allocates a shared
memory and creates separate command queues for each device. Test performs some
computations and memory operations on that shared data using both devices.

Commit message:

Apply comments, improve test coverage

test_plans/sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device.asciidoc, after:

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device

This is a test plan for the API described in the
https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/e94b24718e60a7fa03ca1abbde4f7e37bbd0557d/sycl/doc/extensions/proposed/sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device.asciidoc[`sycl_ext_oneapi_composite_device`]
extension specification.

== Testing scope

=== Device coverage

All of the tests described below are performed on the default device that is
selected on the CTS command line, but some of the test cases may query for
additional devices from the same platform the default device belongs to.

=== Feature test macro

All of the tests should use `#ifdef SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_COMPOSITE_DEVICE` so they
can be skipped if the extension is not supported.

== Tests

Note that some of the sections below closely follow the extension specification
document and describe tests with narrower scope, which are aimed to check
specific functionality. There are sections below which describe bigger test
cases which are intended to check how different elements of the extension work
together.

=== Enumerating composite devices

==== Through the new `get_composite_devices()` API

This test should check that freestanding function `get_composite_devices()`:

- has the correct signature
- does not throw an exception
- returns the same result on subsequent calls

==== Through the new `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()` API

This test should take a platform the selected device belongs to and check that
`platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()` method:

- has the correct signature
- does not throw an exception
- returns the same result on subsequent calls

==== Composite devices are not considered as root devices

The test should ensure that no composite devices are returned through the
`platform::get_devices()` method for a platform the selected device belongs to.

=== New device information descriptors

Composite devices are not considered as root devices and therefore they won't
ever be selected by the CTS. To increase coverage, tests in this subcategory
should be performed on a list of devices that consists of:

- the default device that is selected on the CTS command line
- devices returned by `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()` for the
  platform the default device belongs to

==== `info::device::component_devices`

The test should check that a query for the information descriptor has correct
return type.

The test should also check the value returned for the descriptor:

- if a tested device is not a composite device, an empty vector is expected
- otherwise, returned vector is expected to have at least two elements and those
  elements should be additionally checked:
-- each returned device should have the `ext_oneapi_is_component` aspect
-- each returned device should return the tested device through
   `info::device::composite_device` query

==== `info::device::composite_device`

The test should check that a query for the information descriptor has correct
return type.

The test should also check the value returned for the descriptor:

- if a tested device is not a component device, then a synchronous
  `exception` with `errc::invalid` error code is expected
- otherwise, returned device should have the `ext_oneapi_is_composite` aspect

=== New device aspects

Composite devices are not considered as root devices and therefore they won't
ever be selected by the CTS. To increase coverage, tests in this subcategory
should be performed on a list of devices that consists of:

- the default device that is selected on the CTS command line
- devices returned by `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()` for the
  platform the default device belongs to

==== `ext_oneapi_is_composite`

The test should check that if a tested device has the aspect, then the
device should be present in a list returned by both `get_composite_devices()`
and `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()`.

==== `ext_oneapi_is_component`

The test should check that if a tested device has the aspect, then the
device should *not* be present in a list returned by either
`get_composite_devices()` or `platform::ext_oneapi_get_composite_devices()`.

The test should then attempt to partition a component device using one of
partition methods it supports and check that none of sub-devices have the
`ext_oneapi_is_component` aspect.

=== Impact on "descendent device"

The test should first obtain both a component and a composite device and it is
skipped if that is not possible using the selected device.

Having those two, the test should create a `context` using the _composite_
device and then attempt to create a `queue` by passing the created context in
there *and* the _component_ device. The test checks that `queue` was created
successfully, i.e. no exceptions were thrown.

=== More complex test cases

Tests in this category are intended to represent miniature versions of potential
real-world applications to check how the extension works with other core SYCL
features.

==== Basic tests for the composite device

The test obtains a composite device using the selected device and it is skipped
if unable to do so.

The composite device is then used to submit a series of kernels that perform
some computations and memory operations using a `queue` object associated with
that device.

==== "Interoperability" between composite and component devices

The test should first obtain both a component and a composite device and it is
skipped if that is not possible using the selected device.

The test than creates a shared context for both devices, allocates a shared
memory and creates separate command queues for each device. Test performs some
computations and memory operations on that shared data using both devices.
